---
title: Weekly updates...say what?
desc: a long overdue post & reflections
layout: post
date: 2020-10-23 15:09:22 +0800
---

<p>Hello world! It's been a whole two and a half weeks since my last (and first) entry where I'd promised to update once every week. How splendid!

</p>

<p>Jokes aside, I'm back to re-evaluate how I spend my days because it's obvious that whatever I've planned out for myself a few weeks back is not working out as well as I'd thought. Well, it wasn't entirely a flop, which is great, but I definitely wasn't operating at full capacity.
</p>

<br>
<h3>🧾 progress report</h3>
<p>
🎨: My most successful endeavour so far - I've been posting a piece of artwork a day on my <a href="https://instagram.com/hxlog" target="_blank">instagram account</a> for almost 25 consecutive days now, and I don't intend on breaking the chain anytime soon. It's amazing to watch what started as a curious experiment grow into a daily habit, and possibly my favourite one at that. Initially, I was planning to dedicate one month to grasping the basics - perspectives, lighting, colours, etc - before moving on to more freestyle illustration, but halfway through I decided to just take it easy and draw whatever strikes my fancy. And absolutely no regrets there - I love being able to express my ideas and stories in visual form (and hope that it compensates for my abysmal verbal communication skills), and honing my techniques and skills becomes secondary at this point in time. Not trying to downplay the importance of proper art techniques, but we shouldn't allow it to be an obstacle stopping us from making art. I'll learn and improve as I go along.

</p>
<br>
<p>
💬: Did I mention I was going to study Korean? Because that totally didn't happen. It's still sitting on the back burner since the last time I touched any Korean learning materials, which was when I was procrastinating doing my capstone project. I think Korean studies will have to wait until I learn to manage my time better.
<br>
As for Japanese, I've been writing daily captions for each Instagram post, and they span from just 1-2 short lines to whole paragraphs (rare but happens). To be honest, I sometimes spend more time on the caption than the art. Apart from the caption writing exercise, I haven't really set aside time to study the language... I'm also planning to practice speaking again, so I'll probably look into finding online tutors/friends to talk with.
</p>

<br>
<p>
💻: This poor child is being neglected on a daily basis. I remember I was working on a calculator...and somehow I lost the drive and did not open my editor for nearly a week straight. 
</p>

<br>
<h3>💭 reflections </h3>
<p>
I'd have to say, I now fully understand how social media addiction is a thing. To give a little background: Prior to starting my current art instagram account, the longest I've been on social media was a grand total of one week. I finally see the fun in it: seeing works from aspiring artists all over the world, finding people who share similar interests, gaining bits and pieces of knowledge everyday - it feels like a warm, supportive community despite everyone being strangers. For me, nothing beats personal, one-on-one conversations though. Shall limit my social media time to around half an hour before bedtime.
</p>
<p>Also, my sudoku addiction relapsed out of the blue sometime last week, which robbed me of probably one full day in total. I managed to snap out of it before more damage is done, but I can still feel the itch from time to time...I suspect that was my form of procrastinating finishing up the calculator project. I'd have to buckle down and plough through it soon.

</p>
<br>

<h3>🚀 action plan</h3>

<p>
Time to translate all that talk into action. I'll be posting daily todo-lists each morning (most likely in the form of pomodoros) and wrap up each day with a short summary of things done and lessons learnt. I've also slightly modified my ideal day outline in the previous post to better suit my energy levels throughout the day. Anyway, I feel like I have more to say but I'll keep it short(?) for today. Let's get rolling! 💪
</p>
